[Test]
in the next six minutes that you will
listen to me the world will have lost
three mothers while delivering their
babies one because of a severe
complication second because she will be
a teenager in her body will not be
prepared for birth but the third only
because of lack of access to basic clean
tools at the time of childbirth she will
not be alone over 1 million mothers and
babies die every single year in the
developing world only because of lack of
access to basic cleanliness while giving
birth to their babies my journey began
on a hot summer afternoon in India in
2008 then after a day of meeting women
and listening to their needs
I landed an attached hut with a midwife
as a mother I was very curious on how
she delivered babies in her house after
the deep and engaging conversation with
her on how she considered it a profound
calling to do what she was doing I asked
her a parting question do you have the
tools that you need to deliver the
babies I got to see her too this is what
I used to separate the mother and the
baby she said unsure of how to react I
held this agricultural tool in my hand
in shock I took a picture of this hugged
her and walked away
my mind was flooded with reflections of
my own infection that I had to struggle
with for a year past childbirth despite
having access to best medical care and
memories of my conversation with my
father who had lost his mom to
childbirth on how he thought his life
would be so different if she would have
been just next to him growing up as a
product developer I started my process
of research I was very excited to find
that there was a product out there
called the clean birth
but I just couldn't buy one for months
they were only assembled based on
availability of finding finally when I
got my hands on one I was in shock again
I would never use these tools to deliver
my baby I thought but to control my
instincts I went back to the woman some
of whom had the experience of using this
product lo and behold they had the same
reaction and more the woman said they
would rather deliver on a floor than on
a plastic sheet that smeared blood all
over they were absolutely right it would
cause more infection the Treg provided
was a high rate of bacterial infection
through the baby's umbilical cord and
the blade used with the time they men
used for shaving and they did not want
it anywhere close to them there was no
incentive for anybody to redesign this
product because it was based on charity
the woman when never consulted in this
process and to by surprise the need was
not only in homes but also in
institutional settings with high volume
but situations in remote areas was even
more daunting this had to change I made
this my area of focus I started the
design process by collecting feedback
developing prototypes and engaging with
various stakeholders researching global
protocols with every single prototype we
went back to the woman to ensure that we
had a product for them what I learned
through this process with these women
despite their extreme poverty placed
great value on their health and
well-being they were absolutely not poor
in mind as all of us they would
appreciate a well-designed product
developed for their needs
after many iterations working with
experts medical health professionals in
the woman themselves I should say it was
not an easy process at all but we had a
simple and beautiful design for $1 more
than what the existing product was
offered for at $3 we were able to
deliver janma a clean birth kit in a
purse Genma meaning birth contained a
blood absorbing sheet for the woman to
give birth on a surgical scalpel a card
clamp a bar of soap a pair of gloves in
the first cloth to wipe the baby clean
all this game partition a beautiful
purse that was given to the mother as a
gift after all her hard work that she
carried home that cried as a symbol of
prosperity
one woman reacted to this gift she said
this was really mine can I keep it the
other one said will you give me a
different color when I have my next baby
better yet a woman expressed so this was
the first person that she had ever owned
in her life the kid aside from its
symbolism and the simplicity is designed
to follow globally recommended medical
protocol and serves as a behavior change
tool to follow steps one after the other
it cannot only be used in homes but also
in institutional settings to date our
kit has impacted over 600,000 mothers
and babies around the world it's a
humbling experience to watch these
numbers grow and I cannot reach wait
till we reach a hundred million but
women's health issues do not end here
there are thousands of simple issues
that require low-cost interventions we
have facts to prove that if we invest in
women and girls and provide them with
better health and well-being they will
deliver healthier and wealthier in
prosperous communities we have to start
by bringing simplicity and dignity to
women's health issues from there using
maternal mortality to breaking taboos to
empowering women to take control of
their own life this is my dream but it
is not possible to achieve it without
engaging men and women alike from around
the world yes all of you I recently
heard this lyric by Leonard Cohen ring
the bells that still can ring forget
your perfect offering there is a crack
in everything that's how the light gets
in this is my bit of light but we need
more light in fact we need huge
spotlight placed in the world of women's
health if we need a better tomorrow we
should never forget that women are at
the center of a sustainable was and we
did not exist without them thank
[Applause]